Wuergpackl Aans:  Daten

Wuergpackl Zwaa: Cycle distributions.

Cycles encapsulate semi-local information in a graph. Cycle bases provide
well-defined, manageable cycle sets that can be computed efficiently. The
length distribution of cycle sets such as the relevant cycles, i.e., those
that are contained in at least one minimum cycle basis can be computed
efficiently even without enumerating the sometimes exponentially large
cycle sets. We therefore plan to use cycle distributions as complementary
source of information. In particular we will investigate the relationships
between Laplacian eigenvalues and cycle distribution and explore to what
extent and which graph classes they can be used for alternative
classification tasks.

Properties of cycle bases also characterize planarity and potentially other
embedding properties. The latter is likely of particular relevance to
application in brain-neworks and other networks that are embedded into
low-dimensional (Euklidean) spaces. In the 2nd period we will therefore
systematically investigate the contraints of embeddings on the cycle
distributions. 

Wuergpackl Drei: Sampling-based approaches

Very large networks with often millions of nodes cannot by analyzed
completely by ``expensive'' algorithms with running times that
substantially exceed linear or N\log N time complexity. This is in
particular the case for the computation of cycle bases. This can be
remedied by two approaches: (i) If available fast heuristics can be used to
compute approximations. (ii) Distributions of properties can be estimated
by evaluating small samples of the graph. We will therefore devise
systematic ways to sample suitable cycles sets. This is not trivial because
cycles are not completely local. We will therefore define compact local
induced substraphs whose cycle bases are informative on the global cycle
distribution. The initial empirical study will inform a more in-depth
mathematical analysis geared towards determining which graph classes are
amendable to such a sampling approach. Again, low-dimensionally embedded
graphs are good candidates, because subgraph with fixed diameter remain
finite even then total network size diverges.

Wuergpackl Via: Asymptotic classification.

Similar to limits of spectral distributions in limit of graph size
approaching infinite, limiting distribitions can also be defined for
families of graphs. Expanding on previous work [Gu et al paper] we will
explore the existence of limits for cycle distributions. Of particular
interest is the question whether graph classes with the same limits of
their spectral distribution can distinguished based on the distribution of
cycles. 



